.TH CONVICKT 1
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.\"
.\" Created by Alex Smith; licensed under GNU GPL v2 or later.
.SH NAME
convickt \- convert INTERCAL files between formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B convickt
.I "incharset outcharset [paddingrule [arrayname]]"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page describes the
.BR convickt
command.
Fuller documentation is available via the command
.B info convickt
.
.PP
.B convickt
converts INTERCAL programs from one character set to another; it takes
input from standard input and sends its output to standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
For
.I incharset
and
.I outcharset
.TP
.B atari
Interpret the input as being ASCII-7 Atari syntax INTERCAL, as is used
by the Atari INTERCAL-72 compiler, J-INTERCAL, and C-INTERCAL default
syntax, or output in that syntax.
.TP
.B baudot
Interpret the input as being in CLC-INTERCAL's extended Baudot
syntax, or output in that syntax.
.TP
.B ebcdic
Interpret the input as being in the CLC-INTERCAL dialect of EBCDIC, or
output in that syntax.
.TP
.B latin1
Interpret the input as being Latin-1 Princeton syntax INTERCAL, as is
used by default by CLC-INTERCAL and also readable by C-INTERCAL with
the
.B \-X
switch, or output in that syntax.
.PP
For
.I paddingrule
.TP
.B zero
Pad the irrelevant bits in ASCII-7 and Baudot output with zeros.
.TP
.B printable
Set the values of the irrelevant bits in ASCII-7 and Baudot output to
try to cause the output to stay within character range 32-126. This
option is the default. (Note that
.I paddingrule
is irrelevant for 8-bit character sets like Latin-1 and EBCDIC).
.TP
.B random
Pad the irrelevant bits in ASCII-7 and Baudot output with random data,
except that outputing an all-bits-zero octet is avoided.
.SH CAVEATS
Not all conversions are possible, due to the character sets having
different characters available. In most cases, an unconvertible or
invalid character will be converted to a 0 (padded appropriately); the
exception is that if a tab cannot be converted, it will instead be
converted to a single space (so that INTERCAL programs still run if
converted to Baudot). Using
.B atari
as an input or output character set will literally convert characters
which differ between Atari and Princeton syntax without checking to
see whether they are being used as operators or not.
.PP
If
.I arrayname
is given, then instead of outputting the converted text literally, it
will be output as portable (that is, legal in INTERCAL-72, C-INTERCAL,
J-INTERCAL and CLC-INTERCAL) INTERCAL that dimensions the tail array
given as
.I arrayname
and assigns each byte of the output to an element of that array; this
is mostly useful for producing Baudot text for CLC-INTERCAL-style
array IO.
.SH AUTHOR
.B convickt
and this manual page were written by Alex Smith.
